
ChatGPT said:
ChatGPT
Here’s a unified Git study guide that combines key commands from the resources you provided and what you’ve practiced with me. It includes commands, explanations, and a structure you can use for future reference.

Git Study Guide
1. Initial Setup & Configuration
Before using Git, make sure to configure it with your user information.

Set your name and email


git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "youremail@example.com"
Explanation: This is needed to track your commits properly with your identity.

2. Create a New Repository
To create a new Git repository:



git init
Explanation: Initializes an empty Git repository in the current directory.

3. Check Repository Status
To check the current status of your working directory:



git status
Explanation: Shows the status of the files in your working directory (staged, unstaged, or untracked).

4. Add Files to the Staging Area
Add files to be tracked or staged for the next commit:



git add <file-name>
git add .
Explanation: Stages files for commit. git add . stages all changes in the current directory.

5. Commit Changes
To commit staged changes:



git commit -m "Commit message"
Explanation: Commits the staged changes with a descriptive message.

6. View Commit History
To view the commit history:



git log
For a simplified view with one line per commit:



git log --oneline
Explanation: git log shows the full history of commits. git log --oneline gives a shorter, one-line summary of each commit.

7. Create & Switch Branches
To create a new branch and switch to it:



git checkout -b <branch-name>
To switch to an existing branch:



git checkout <branch-name>
Explanation: Creates and switches to a new branch or switches to an existing branch.

8. List Branches
To view all branches in your repository:



git branch
Explanation: Lists all branches in the current repository.

9. Delete a Branch
To delete a local branch:



git branch -d <branch-name>
To force delete a branch that hasn’t been merged:



git branch -D <branch-name>
Explanation: Deletes the specified branch. Use -D to force the delete if the branch hasn’t been merged.

10. Push Changes to Remote
To push your changes to the remote repository:



git push -u origin <branch-name>
Explanation: Pushes your local branch to the remote repository and sets it to track the remote branch.

11. Pull Changes from Remote
To fetch and merge changes from the remote repository:



git pull
Explanation: Fetches changes from the remote and merges them into your local branch.

12. Clone a Remote Repository
To clone an existing remote repository to your local machine:



git clone <repository-url>
Explanation: Downloads the entire repository from a remote server to your local machine.

13. Compare Changes Between Branches
To compare the differences between two branches:



git diff <branch1>..<branch2>
Explanation: Shows the differences between two branches.

14. View Uncommitted Changes
To see what has been changed but not yet committed:



git diff
Explanation: Displays the changes in your working directory that haven’t been staged yet.

15. Stage and Unstage Files
To unstage a file (remove it from the staging area):



git restore --staged <file-name>
Explanation: Removes a file from the staging area but keeps the changes in the working directory.

16. Undo Changes
To undo changes in a file (revert back to the last committed version):



git restore <file-name>
Explanation: Discards local changes in a file and restores it to the version in the last commit.

17. Merge Branches
To merge one branch into another:



git merge <branch-name>
Explanation: Merges the specified branch into the current branch.

18. Stash Changes
To temporarily save changes without committing them:



git stash
To apply the stashed changes:



git stash apply
Explanation: Stashes your changes, allowing you to work on something else and come back later.

19. Revert a Commit
To create a new commit that undoes the changes from a previous commit:



git revert <commit-id>
Explanation: Reverts a commit and applies a new commit that undoes the changes.

20. Fetch Changes from Remote
To download changes from the remote repository without merging them:



git fetch
Explanation: Downloads changes from the remote without affecting your working directory or staging area.

21. Work with Remotes
To add a remote repository:



git remote add origin <repository-url>
To view remote repositories:



git remote -v
Explanation: Adds a remote repository or lists existing remotes for your project.

22. Pull Changes from a Remote Branch
To fetch and merge changes from a specific remote branch:



git pull origin <branch-name>
Explanation: Fetches and merges changes from the specified branch on the remote repository.

23. Push Changes to a Specific Remote Branch
To push to a specific branch on the remote repository:



git push origin <branch-name>
Explanation: Pushes the changes to a specific branch on the remote repository.

Study and Practice Routine
Create a repository and practice committing, branching, and pushing changes.
Experiment with different branch operations like switching, merging, and deleting branches.
Use git status and git log regularly to track changes in your repository.
Practice undoing changes with git restore, git diff, and git revert.
This guide should help you solidify your understanding of Git commands and workflows. Keep practicing, and let me know if you need additional explanations or examples! 🚀
